This is May 19, I believe. I have the pleasure of
being at 1212 Orr Street, getting ready to chat
with Mary Eccles. Ms. Eccles, would you say a
sentence or two, and let's see if your machine is
picking up. Well, I will. I wanted to start out when
my father came in August of 2009. All right. Are you
interested in that? Oh, yes, yes. Tell, first of
all, tell me about his background. Where did he
grow up and where did he? Well, he grew up in
Mississippi and he was at the University of, when
he was at
Mississippi A&M, he graduated and taught there.
And he came here in August of 09. He came to me in the
physics department. which he was never in. When he
got here, they were organizing for the first time
the electrical engineering department, which he
took over and kept. Had he majored in electrical
engineering? Yes. How did he get recruited? Who
contacted him? I have no idea about that. How did he
come? On the train, I presume. Oh, yeah, on the
train. And my mother was crippled. And I don't know
how she managed, but she did. Because they had to
walk up from the station down there to the houses.
And they had a house. It was Throckmorton, but it
really was quality rose, what they always called
it. What did they bring with them in the way of
furniture or belongings? I don't have any idea,
but not a lot. And my mother had taught in the little
school on the campus at Mississippi A&M. What did
she teach? The beginners. Oh, elementary school?
Yeah, yeah. And were there any children at that
point? No, and I came in January. They came in
August, and I arrived in January. Where were you?
Were you born at home? At home. The doctor razor
came out from Brian Ray horse and buggy razor raise
RAZOR.
And so you you were born in the house on the campus,
yeah.
Who was the president then? You know, I've been
thinking all morning about that, and I'm not sure.
I think that it was
Milner.
Do you have any idea what your father's first
salary was? No. But it wasn't very much. None of
them were very much. How long did they live in that
house? Well, they lived in that house. until 1918,
and then they moved two houses up the street.
Describe that first house as you remember it.
Well, you know, it was just, it was just, it was
home, and just a house. How big was it? Bedrooms? We
had about three or four bedrooms. And to every
house on campus, there was a maid's quarters. They
had maid's quarters. Did y'all have a full-time
maid? Yep, we did. And did she have a family or was
she by herself? She was by herself.
Describe the, how many, How many faculty houses
were there? Do you remember? How big was the
neighborhood of faculty? Well, on our street,
they were, all the houses that were there except,
they built one for later on when the,
I'll tell you in a minute.
Dr. Thomas came. They built him a house in there in
between our old house. By then we had moved up the
street between our house and the one next to it. I
forgot who lived down below us, our house. And then
the Youngbloods, he was head of the
Well,
isn't that awful? We'll get it later. Yeah, yeah.
Describe your neighbors. Well, that was them, and
then on the other side of us was Dr. Fraps, who was a
state chemist. Frap, F-R-A-P? F-R-A-P-S, Fraps.
Mm-hmm. And... Dr. Ball lived right across the
street from us. B-A-L-L, Ball. He was biology.
And next to him was Dean Pereira. And as you know,
Dean Pereira was the only one who owned his own
home. It was on campus, but it was his with the
understanding, of course, that when he gave it up,
it went over to the university. Was that
P-U-R-Y-E-A-R? P-U-R-Y-E-A-R. He was the dean of
the college.
Do you remember him by personality? Definitely.
He was an old bachelor. And he always weighed us. He
walked with a cane, and when we were real little, we
were allowed to be picked. You know, he'd pick us up
on his cane and weighed us. And who were some of your
playmates as you were a youngster? Okay. All
right. Mary Frapps, who lived on the other side.
She was a little bit older, but she was there. And
Virginia Burns and Julia Ball, who lived across
the street. And then later, when the Waltons moved
out on campus, they moved into the house that we
originally lived in. And they and Ethel and I were
very close friends. Describe Mr. Walton. Well,
you know, it's hard for me to do that because he was
so special. We just grew up, you know, and I spent as
much time in their house as I did in my own home, and
it was just my second home. What made him special?
Well, just because he was there, I guess. Did he
have presents for little girls? Oh, no, nothing
like that. No, nothing like that. No, he had...
four children of his own. What did he like to do? Did
he have any hobbies or things? Not that I can
remember. We bought our milk from them. They had a
cow and we got our milk from them. And so they had a
cow on the campus and it was milked. Oh yeah, oh
yeah. I think we had one originally because that
wasn't good enough for me, anything wasn't good
enough for me because I was that first little girl.
Where did y'all buy groceries?
They ordered them. Each morning you called in to
Brian to Mr. I don't know what his name was in a
minute, and ordered what you had to have for the
day, and he brought it out in the afternoon,
delivered it. In a truck? Well, a horse-drawn
truck. Oh, a wagon. Yeah, yeah. And was there any
place out here near the college to buy groceries?
No place. It was years and years before there was
any place.
Go back as far as your memory can. Describe what was
on the campus. What buildings were here? The main
building, which burned after, you know, and then
was rebuilt. All right. It was here when you came,
the main building that burned. Also, as far as I
know, the the electrical engineering and the
civil engineering buildings and there were
dormitories and they went up that main drag just
like they always did. Was Sully's statue there? Oh
no, that came later. Do you remember when the main
building burned? I was real small then, and I know
it burned, but I... You don't remember seeing it or
anything? But when the floods came and when the
river, Brazos River got out and washed everything
away, we'd go up into the top floor, or up, I guess,
on the roof of the administration
building, and we could see what was going on over
there. Out to the west. Yeah, yeah. Do you remember
when the main building was built? Do you remember
watching that happen? No. Where did you and your
friends, where did y'all play? In our yards. And we
always, at night, everybody got out and played
until dark. Just in the neighborhood. Did the
students ever come over to the faculty area? No,
except that they worked over there. My father
always had them in the yard. That was his way of
helping him get an education. He paid him to do the
yard work. Doing yard work. Yeah, yeah. And in old
school, we had to go to Bryan to school. How did you
get to Bryan? Well, we walked down to Speza Hall and
got on a streetcar, and sometimes we got there and
sometimes we didn't, but then that's the way we
went. And that was until 1920. Where, what school
in Bryan, where was the building? Do you remember?
Yeah, it was out this way. It's still there, but
it's changed a number of times, different names,
so I don't have, but it was close to, well, Texas
Avenue. It was about three or four blocks from
there. You walk. Was it that old elementary school
over by the old St. Joseph Hospital? over toward
where the Astons lived? It was in there someplace,
yeah. Do you remember who the teachers were, any of
your? Well, I used to, but I didn't stop. Mother
taught me until I was in the third grade, so I didn't
have to go as soon as some of them did. When you did
go, about how many students went to school in Bryan
from the college? All of us. But I mean we all just
walked, the whole gang of us just walked to get on
the streetcar and we rode in there. And if an order
came and we didn't have clothes enough, some one of
the mothers, by then there were some cars on the
camp, a few cars, and they would bring in our
jackets in for us. Would you all fill up a streetcar
when all the kids were on it? Oh, I think so. And so
you went to school there. Because it was all the way
through high school. You went to school there
until 1920? 1920.
Let's back up. How did World War I affect the
campus? Do you remember? Yes. My father had charge
of the the program for the the students that were i
mean the the soldiers that were there it was were
under him and he worked with the uh well fort sam
who's and i remember the thing that impressed me as
a little girl was that we had a a special telephone
that of course we couldn't use but it went direct to
the to the military
Now, were the students that he was helping, were
these all A&M students, or had some young men been
brought? Oh, these were soldiers that were put
there by the Army during World War I, just like they
did during World War II. And what was he teaching
them? Well, he didn't teach them. He was just over
the whole program. Oh, I see. Yeah. I'm sure they
had their own teachers because it was a military
thing, but they were just stationed there during
the war. Now how close was it from your house to the
dormitories where the students lived, the A&M
students? Well, it was about two blocks. And when
you all referred If someone asked you where you
lived, did you all say we live at college? What did
you call this community? It was always College
Station. I don't know. Or A&M Campus. No, it was A&M
Campus. And
when the war was over, did a bunch of veterans come
back to school? I don't know. I expect they did.
They did it after World War II, but I think they
probably did. Right. So you were in Bryan until
1920. I was never in Bryan. I mean, went to school.
Then you came back and went to school on the campus?
The school was across the street from our house. On
the campus. On the campus. Please describe the
building as much as you can. Well, it was a nice size
building, a two-story building, and all of the
school was there. And the house, the Ball's house,
they were these old houses. They may be, you
probably don't know about them, but then, I mean,
they were the original buildings. houses for the
original university. And they were across the
street from us. There were one, two, three, I think
there were four or five. And anyway, there were two
stories. And one of them, they made it into the
teacherage, the one that was closest to the thing.
But also,
some of our courses were taught by Indian
professors. Do you remember some of those
teachers? Well, I can't give you their names now.
But we took physics and chemistry and things like
that University professors. And you graduated
what year? I graduated early and I graduated in
1926. 26.
About how many were in your graduation class? Oh,
about, I graduated a year ahead. There were about
seven or eight of us. What did y'all call the name of
the school? consolidated. It was already
consolidated because they brought them all in
from all the neighboring areas. What did did the
what did y'all call the kids that lived out in the
country? I'm sure we were nice about it but they
with our home economics we would make money the
time or two we'd sell peanut brittle and I can
remember to this day how horrible it was because
they got on their buses and went home at four
o'clock and we had to wash all those. All those
peanuts? Those pans and they were horrible. And as
you were in high school, who were your closest
friends? Ethel. Walton and Mary Frapps and Julia
Ball. We were all, you know, right there in the
neighborhood. When you were in high school, was it
acceptable to have a date with an Aggie student? In
fact, I went to some of the dances when I was 12
because they needed girls so badly. Please
describe those dances. What were they like? Where
were they held? Well, they were held in Speza Hall.
And the
faculty wives chaperoned. They were all there and
chaperoned them. And when I got into college and
came home, then at midnight, Of course, there's no
place to go to get a bite to eat or anything, so we
always went to our houses. They took turns. One
would have it one time, and we'd walk down,
military walking, to the house and have our
refreshments and then go back to the dance. Now,
Guyon Hall was there. Well, it wasn't in the
beginning, but it was later. Okay, so that Sabisa
was at the other end, and the academic building was
there by the time you were in high school. It had
been rebuilt. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. At a dance at
Sabisa, what did you young ladies wear? Oh, long
dresses. And for the RVs, ballroom things, we had
to have four. Because they were Thursday night,
Friday night, and Saturday night. Which one? That
was for the RVs. Which dance was most important?
Well, the RVs had theirs in the spring. Then there
was a big one at Thanksgiving and a big final ball.
But they were, also we had dances on the weekends.
And did, there was no problem about dancing? No
Baptist complained about? Well, if they didn't,
we didn't hear them. But we didn't have any,
there weren't any churches on campus at all then.
And I mean, I think there was two or three years
where every Sunday my father would go out and talk
to different people to find out what kind of, what
they wanted, what denomination they wanted, and
they finally got theirs. But otherwise, they
marched them all in on Sunday, you know, they
marched the whole corps into the, finally it was to
the, God Hall, but before that it was next door. It
was on the road there with the dormitories. And
there would be a worship service? There was a
worship service and some prominent minister
from, it didn't make any what denomination, it was
a different one every time, but they had a
different one every Sunday. Did you and your
parents go to church during those years? Yes.
Where did you all worship? Well, we went in, Brian,
to the Presbyterian Church. We'd drive in on
Sunday. And it was down there by the railroad?
Yeah. Were your parents Presbyterians before
they came? Yes.
Were there other Presbyterians on the campus?
What other families? No, there were a lot. Later on
there were the Frank Andersons and
the Wilcoxes. He was the principal and then the
superintendent of the school when we got our high
school. There were quite a few. Let's see. Back on
the campus, the classes were held from Monday
morning till Saturday at noon. But you youngsters
went to school just Monday through Friday. That's
right. And who were some of the teachers in the high
school that you remember? Were there some special
people that were really good? Yes, but they came
and went, and not anybody that was here
permanently.
So there weren't many of them that were wives of
faculty members? None, really. In the beginning,
I think finally that happened a little bit later
on, but they were. Let's go back to the dances. How
did the people behave at the dances? They behaved
fine. We had programs and we knew who we would go to
dance with and you went to a certain place after the
dance and then you got your next person that was on
your program. How did you put the names on your
program? There was a pencil hanging on your dance
program. Okay. And so they filled out the program
that night? Yeah, that night people would come up
and ask if they could have a dance. And, of course,
you were very popular because there weren't many
girls there. All right, so there were girls from
the campus. Were there girls from Bryan? Oh,
always, always. but not many from the campus
because there weren't that many of us at that age
group, but always from Bryan. And then for the big
dances, the families on campus took care of the
student girls, but they'd come and stay with you.
We always had girls staying with us. What did the
families charge for that? Oh, no, no. Normally,
what dance would have the largest out-of-town
crowd? I guess maybe the RVs because they came and
stayed three days. Did girls come down from CIA?
Oh, yes, a lot of them from CIA. Now I've heard about
boys writing letters to girls with the same post
office box number for a blind date. That didn't
happen way back there? If it did, I didn't know it.
It probably did, though. It did. uh my mind recalls
that dr bezell came here as president yes in 1915.
yes please share anything you remember about the
bezells well uh elaine the daughter was was uh well
i think she was in high school and now i see i wasn't
but five years old then so uh but but she We looked up
to her, and Dr. Brazil was very highly thought of. I
interviewed her about a year ago, and she was
marvelous. She lives in Oklahoma City. Was she a
pleasant young lady? Oh, yes. How often did you and
your family go to the president's house in those
days? I don't remember at all. I mean, I didn't go at
all because... Describe Dr. Bezell physically.
What did he look like? Well, he was a big, heavy-set
man, like most of them were back in those days. And
she said he didn't believe in drinking. Oh, no, no.
They were Baptists. That's right. Very definite
Baptists. And from Navasota.
On drinking, where did the students, if they
wanted to get something to drink, where did they
get it? They didn't get it. They weren't supposed
to drink and they didn't get it. And my father was
very opposed to it. We never had a... We finally...
Well, I had something and I almost died in the... A
neighbor across the street brought over a little
whiskey and kept me alive until the doctor got
there. After that, we had a little bottle that we
kept in the old cedar chest. But that same little
bottle was there for many, many years.
After a dance, if a group of students and their
dates wanted to have a big time, where did they go?
Well, they had to go back to a house. Okay.
Somebody's house because people just don't
realize there was nothing. There was just
nothing. What was there at Northgate or Southgate
when you were in high school? Was there anything?
Well, in high school, what's his name? I know you
know who I'm going to talk about it. funny little
old man, and he had a house up there. Can't think of
what his name was. He was a bachelor, and he
entertained the high school kids, and he was
writing an opera. Writing an opera? He was writing
an opera, yeah. But he had several pianos, and we'd
go. He'd entertain us, and we'd go up to his house,
but There was just really, there was nothing. I
mean, there was no place to stay. And the people,
look at me in the heart, but when I say that the
people used our bathroom, because, you know,
there was no place for women to go to the bathroom or
anything. It was just, it was a boys' school. And we
was there close by where they could stop by on the
way to the ball game. Was it acceptable for you as a
young girl to walk down the hallway of the A&M
buildings? Or did your family tell you to stay out
of those buildings? Oh, no. I mean, there wasn't
any reason to go. And when they built a new
building, we were always there to serve the punch
and to do the things like that. Let's see. Describe
the Andersons. Frank. Yes, ma'am. Well, they
lived behind us. And
Frank Anderson also came from Mississippi, so he
and my father had, you know, things in common.
Describe him. What was he like? He was a very fine
person. Bigs? No, he wasn't big. He wasn't a big
man, but he was a good coach. Now, he was one of the
coaches and later would be a part of the
commandant. What about Coach D.X. Bible?
Describe him. Well, he was a coach and a good one,
and he was at my wedding. Really? Yeah, yeah. He was
at my wedding. Let's see. Did you by chance know a
football player named Heine Weir? No. The name I
do, but I didn't know him. I ask because in 1959, I
taught at Schreiner College in Kerrville, and he
was then the dean. Oh, no. Then I later learned that
he was the player who had the hurt leg that King Gill
would have replaced as the 12th man. No. Isn't that
interesting? Did you know King Gill by chance? No,
no. Okay. He was older. Describe Coach Norton's
personality, I mean Coach Bible's personality.
You said he was a good coach. Well, you know, I was
just a little girl. I mean, I don't, the only time
that I really came in contact with those people was
we had a, We'd have summer picnics. Oh, describe
those. And we'd go out to the old fish pot, which is
sitting over here someplace now, close to the...